SchlockBuster video is a chain of video rental stores. A unique storeID identifies each store. Additional information about each store is the store address and phone number. SchlockBuster has many employees. An employee ID identifies each employee. Additional information about an employee is the employee's name, address, and phone number. Each employee has at least one and could have many phone numbers. Each employee's phone number is classified by a phone number type, such as an office phone number, home phone number, beeper number, etc. An employee can have many phone numbers but only one per phone number type.

Each employee is classified as one type of employee: "manager," "cashier," or "stocker. An employee type such as "manager," "cashier," or "stocker" can classify many employees. A store can employ many employees. An employee must be employed by one and only one store.

There are numerous video titles (Braveheart, Lion King, Waterworld, etc.) available to SchlockBuster from many video distributors. SchlockBuster maintains a listing of titles by a title ID. Additional information for each title includes the title's name, run time(such as 120 minutes), and rating (G, PG, R).

SchlockBuster maintains a listing of distributors by distributor ID. Additional information about a distributor includes the distributor's name and phone number. A video title is available from one and only one distributor. A distributor can provide many video titles.

Each SchlockBuster store can carry many titles. Many stores can carry a title. All stores carry not all titles. In other words, stores can carry many of the same titles, and some can carry titles that other stores do not. SchlockBuster also maintains, by store, the amount (rental rate) that the store charges to customers to rent the title. This implies that each store can set its rental price for each title.

A store can stock multiple copies (the physical cassette cartridge) of the same title. In other words, store 101 can maintain five physical cartridges of "Mission Impossible." A cartridge ID number identifies each cartridge. A cartridge utilization count is also maintained for each cartridge. The utilization count represents the number of times a cartridge has been rented. A cartridge status classifies each cartridge. The domain of cartridge status is Available", "Rented," and "Broken." A status type can apply to many cartridges.

SchlockBuster maintains a record of each of its customers. A unique customer ID identifies each customer. Additional information maintained about each customer is the customer's name and the customer's phone number. Each customer is associated with the store where they enrolled as members to receive their SchlockBuster Video card. A customer can rent a video from any store. This relationship allows Schlockbuster to credit a portion of each rental amount to the home store of the member, regardless of where the video is rented.

SchlockBuster maintains a record of each rental transaction. A rental ID number identifies each rental transaction. Each rental transaction is associated with one and only one customer. Each rental transaction is associated with (rented from) one and only one store. Each rental transaction also captures the rental date and total rental amount. Each rental transaction is associated with one or more rental transaction detail lines. Each rental transaction detail line captures the id of the cartridge being rented, the due date of the cartridge being rented, and the actual return date.